All right.
Welcome back.
So we have our API running back and with Express Mongo node.
Now we're going to create our re-act front end.
So the first thing we need to do.
I'm going to make a new tab here we want to keep our server running by the way.
So we're going to have our backend server.
We're going to have our mongoose or excuse me or Mungo's server the database and I can make a new terminal
now and I'm going to create the re-act app and eventually run it here so will have three different things
going at the same time.
So I'm going to go into the full stack to do app and now I'm going to run create dash re-act dash app
and let's call this to use the front end.
Call it whatever you want but make it different from the Sea-Doo API.
And of course this takes forever.
I'll be back in a couple of minutes.
I'll cut this out.
Oh right.
Twenty years later I'm back.
And our create racked up has created.
It's done.
Now the CD into it.
So that's the to do's front end.
And let's just start off by running NPM start and you might think everything's nice and rosy we should
get our basic create re-act app starter code or start starter index page.
However there's a small problem.
The problem at least in Cloud 9 is that the default port that it's going to try and use is the same
port that our existing server backend server is using 80 80.
So we get this problem this error.
That's already running on port 80 80.
It's probably.
And it gives that guess what it thinks it is.
This process it gives us the process ID and it asks us if we want to choose another port.
I'm going to say no and it will cancel everything and I'm going to go back over here to our node app
and if we look at the API index J.S. you can see this line here which is setting the port variable equal
to whatever the port is in the process study in an environment variable or by default 3000.
Now on cloud nine ADHD is what process that you need up port is set to automatically.
So again this is really only something you have to pay attention to if you're using Cloud 9.
But it's important to know about what I'm going to do instead is take advantage of the fact that I can
manually set process on invite up port so I could make a file called EMV and set a port variable in
there.
But the other thing I can do is restart the server.
So I'm going to close out of this and I'm just going to type.
Port equals.
And I'm going to do 80 81.
So as long as this matches what I had an index that yes process that port in all caps and I run node
index j yes takes a moment but you'll see that our app is now running on port 80 81.
And in fact if I go back here and I type colon 80 80 we don't have anything anymore.
In the past we did go to 81.
I now get my application.
So nothing is really changed.
We're just using another port but we've freed up port 80 80 for create re-act up.
Now we could do it the other way around.
And it doesn't have to be 80 81 by the way or 80 80 could be 3000 in 80 85.
It really doesn't matter.
But those are kind of standard ones.
So it doesn't matter which way we do it we just need to have two different ports going so we can have
these two apps running at the same time.
They have to be running at the same time.
OK so now let's go back to create re-act up NPM start.
And we shouldn't get that error anymore.
Might take a moment slow starter.
Do you.
OK here we go.
It's now it's on localhost 80.
You can click on this click Open and here is our reactor.
So right now it has nothing to do with our API.
Let me go to slash API slash traduce.
They're not connected in any way.
But we at least have two servers running.
So this is our front end and eventually it will be connected to this.
OK.
So we're up and running there.
And the last thing we'll do with this video is just go into our create react up to do is front and open
up source go into app.
And let's just delete most of this stuff in here and I'll just put this is to do app and we'll save
and just make sure it updates OK.
Perfect.
So we now have a blank slate.
We have our app running.
We have the back end running.
Now the real work starts.
So in the next video we're going to define our first component and we're going to get some code showing
on the page.